
Practical No 1: File System Analysis Using Autopsy.
Aim: File System Analysis Using Autopsy.
Steps:

1.	Using starting Autopsy 3, a window will open with three selections to make: Create a new case open existing case, or open a recent case.
2.	Select ‘New Case’.
3.	Fill the case info, give case name as ‘Analysis’ and browse to the directory where it should be stored and click on Next
4.	The next window will allow the investigator to fill in the case number as ‘C002’ and examiner name as ‘Mithilesh’. Click Finish.
5.	The next step in the investigation will be to add an image file to the case. Use the browse button to find the image that is desired to work with and select add. Click Next
6.	The following window will bring the investigator to the Ingest wizard Panel.
7.	Under the Hash Lookup option there is the advanced option to add databases of known hashes.
8.	Under the keyword search option are many different lists that can be used to search for information. By default Phone Numbers, IP Addresses, Email Addresses and URL’s are available.
9.	Select the Advanced button and a keyword list configuration window will open. In this new window select New List and type the name ‘ANALYSIS LIST’ that is desired for the list.
10.	In the adjacent pane there is a blank section with a word bar and an Add button next to it. Type thee keyword desired(case sensitive) and select Add to add the word to the list.
11.	Click OK.
12.	After the image is indexed the tree will be populated by the file system.
13.	Click Generate Report. The report can be generated in three formats: Excel, XML and HTML.
14.	We select Results-Excel
15.	Looking at the tree, the top selection is titled “Images” this is where the acquired image is located and the bulk of the investigation, will take place. If the Images tab is expanded the investigator will see each image that was added to the investigation. By expanding an images tab the volumes of the image will be seen including the file system and unallocated space. Expanding the tab that contains the operating system will give the investigator a look at the root directory and the tree that contains most of the relevant information.
16.	Below the Images tab is the “Views” tab that will allow the investigator to separate the information in the image into different categories such as by file types and by recent documents. The file type can be broken down into: images, video, audio and documents which includes the major text formats. Another section in the views tab is a new feature in Autopsy 3, the Recent Files tab.
17.	The next tab that is seen is the Results tab, this is a new feature that displays all the information from the ingest process. There are 4 main categories when separating the results tab: Extracted Content, Keyword Hits, Hashset Hits, and E-mail Messages.
18.	The last tab is Report tab which shows the generated report.

 




















Practical No. 2 AIM: Windows Forensics using OS Forensic.

Step 1: Open OSF. Select continue using trial version.
Step 2: The main screen opens. Click on create case.
Step 3: Enter basic case details. Click on ok.
Step 4: case will be added in the manager case window.
Step 5: In added case section, click on attachment to add evidence. Add a doc file, txt file and jpg file and give proper details while adding.
Step 6: After adding evidence, select doc file and click on properties button to check its information.
Step 7: From the left panel, click on memory viewer too see the total memory consumption details.
Step 8: From left panel, click on file name search, to search for a file. Add file in name and click on scan.
Step 9: To add searched files to a case, right click on the file, go to three times checked -> add to case -> list of checked items. Enter the details for the same.
Step 10: The search items appear in the list.
Step 11: To add any email file, on the left panel, click on email viewer. A window appears to select email file. Select back.pst file and click on open.
Step 12: They appear in email viewer select them and add them to the case as shown below. It will appear on manage case window.
Step 13: Click on generate report. Select create full length report and click on ok.
Step 14: Report will open in a chrome tab.
 



































 











Practical No 4a Aim: Using file recovery tools [FTKImager] Creating Image Steps:
1.	Run FTK Imager.exe to start the tool
2.	From file menu select create a disk image and choice the source of your image
3.	Click ADD to add the image destination. Check verifies images after they are created so FTK Imager will calculate MD5 and SHA1 hashes of the acquired image.
4.	Next select the image type. The type you choose will usually depend on what tools you plan to use on the image. The dd format will work with more open source tools but you might want SMART or E01 if you will primarly be working with ASR Expert witness or Encase respectively.
5.	If your version of FTK regulates evidence information you can provide it. If you select raw(dd) format the image meta data will not be stored in the image file itself.
6.	Select the image destination folder and file name. You can also set the maximum fragment size of image split files. Click finish to complete the wizard.
7.	Click start to begin the acquisition
8.	A program window will appear

Verifying image

Process complete

9.	You can right click on the drive name to verify the image.
10.	Once the acquisition is complete you can view an image summary and the drive will appear in the evidence list in the left hand side of main FTK imager window

Place where image drive is stored

10. FTK imager also creates a log of the acquisition process and places it in the same directory as the image-name.text. This file lists the evidence information details of the drive check sum and times the image acquisition started and finished.
 











































Practical No 4b

Aim: Recover Deleted files using Recuva, PC Inspector File Recovery.

1. Using Recuva Steps:
1.	Create a folder named “demo” in a location and add few pictures and files

{.docx, .xls, .txt} in it. Also delete the folder permanently.

2.	Run Recuva application. Select “All Files” option and click next.
3.	Select the location where the files were placed and click Next.
4.	In Recuva is now ready to search files window. Click Start.
5.	Recuva shows list of deleted files
6.	To recover any files, tick the check box and click on Recover button at bottom-right of the window.
7.	It will ask to select the location where recovered data is to be stored. Click OK. The data will be recovered to that location.
8.	To search a file by file name, click on “Switch to advanced mode” option on top-right of the window.
9.	Search can be made by typing file name or initials, tick the check box and click on Recover.
10.	Again, select the location where recovered data is to be stored. Click OK. The data will berecovered to that location.

II.	Using PC Inspector File Recovery Steps:
1.	Run PC Inspector Recovery tool. Select language English and click on Green tick mark
2.	Click on button next to recover deleted files.
3.	On logical drive tab, select the drive and click on Green tick mark.
4.	It will show the list of deleted files in the drive. You can browse various folders on that drive.
5.	To recover a file, select the file, right-click on it and choose “Save to
6.	Select the location where the file has to be saved and click on Green tick mark.
7.	The file will be recovered to that location.
 

III.	Using Recover My Files Steps:
1.	Run the tool, select Recover Files and click on Next.
2.	Select the drive to search and recover files and click Next.
3.	Select option Search for deleted files, then search for selected lost file types and click Next
4.	Select file headers- type of file to search tick mark on check box and click on Start.
5.	The search will begin in 3 phases. Select the file to recover and click on Save Files button on top-left
6.	Select offline activation and click Next.


 
 
PRACTICAL NO: 06

AIM: Dump memory contains using Pmdump. Step 1: Download pmdump and run it.
 
Step 2: Use pmdump -list command to list the running process.
Step 3: select any process to see its content.
Step 4: use the process id and using pmdump command and store it in a file name dump.txt
Step 5: Use dir command to check file dump.txt is created.
Step 6: Open the file using notepad dump.txt command to view it.
Step 7: File dump.txt is as shown below.

 
Practical No :7

Aim: Forensic Investigation Using Encase.

Steps:

1.	Open the Encase software tool.
2.	Click on New and enter the name and click on Finish.
3.	Check the left pane
4.	Click on Add Device and select “Local Drives” and click Next
5.	Choose a device and click Next.
6.	We can see the preview of the selected device and click Finish.
7.	We can see the device selected.
8.	Click on Edit and select Acquire.
9.	Click Next
10.	Enter the Name and check the output path and click Finish.
11.	Acquiring process starts.
12.	Click OK
13.	Verification result
14.	Select bookmark option, select “Logs”
15.	For viewing report, right click on Report tab and select Export.
16.	Click OK
17.	Open the file “export1.txt



 

Practical No: 8a

Aim: Using Steganography Tools [S-Tools]

Steps:
1.	Select the S-tools.exe file and open the steganography software tool.
2.	The main window of the program appears.
3.	Three buttons are available on the main window:
•	File
•	Window
•	Help
4.	With both the working directory and the S-Tools program open minimize both windows and place side-by-side.
5.	The S-Tools program is a drag and drop software. The files used to create the steganography file can be dragged from the directory into the S-Tools program.
6.	Select a valid audio file or image as the base file for the steganography file. The zebras.bmp was selected and dragged onto the main window of the S-Tools program. The image is opened.
7.	The zebras.bmp and the Actions window are now in the S-Tools program.
8.	The Action window is a process window which displays the process steps as a file is being hidden within a base file.
9.	Place the working directory and the base file side-by-side.

10.	10 Select a file to hide within the base file.
11.	The abc.txt is selected and dragged on top of the base image. Release the file while the cursor is still on the top of the base file,
12.	A dialogue box will appear asking the user to enter and verify a passphrase. Additionally, the user will have to select an encryption algorithm.
13.	Enter a passphrase in both the passphrase and verify passphrase text boxes.
14.	If the same passphrase is not entered in both text boxes the ‘OK’ button will be grayedout and the user will not be able to proceed to creating the steganography file.
15.	Select the ‘OK’ button after entering a valid passphrase.
16.	The S-Tools main window will appear and a new file will be visible. The name of the file will be called hidden data by default.
17.	At this point, the original file has been selected and opened, a second file have been selected and opened and a passphrase has been selected

18.	Now the user has to save the steganography file.
19.	Place the cursor on top of ythe hidden data image and select the right mouse button.
a.	The user will have four option availabler to rthem:
i.	Save
ii.	Save As
iii.	Properties
iv.	Reveal
20.	Now to9 reveal the data from the image, right click and click o9n option Reveal.
21.	This will show the file which can be saved and verified.

 



































Practical No 8b

Aim: Using Whitespace Steganography tool SNOW

Steps:

1.	Download snow tool. It is command line tool.
https://darkside.com.au/snow/
2.	Create a text file “demo.txt” in which the secret message is to be stored and keep this file in snow directory only.
3.	Open the command prompt and reach to location where snow directory is stored and run dir command
4.	To store a secret message in file demo.txt, use following command and also give password.

snow –C –m “This practical is demo of steganography using snow tool” -p "1234" demo.txt newfile.txt
Or
SNOW.EXE -C -p 1234 -m "hidden message by saket" input.txt output.txt ->> Create txr file of name input.txt.

-m indicates message to be stored

-p indicates password to protect the message demo.txt is file in which message will be hidden newfile.txt is file with the secret message
 
White spaces will be added to new files. The above output shows extra 3 lines were added.
5.	To recover message from newfile.txt use following command 

snow –C –p “Demo.txt” newfile.txt
Or
SNOW.EXE -C -p 1234 output.txt
 






























Practical No 9.a Aim: Password Cracking Using Cain and Abel.
Steps:

1.	Open Cain and Able.
2.	Click on Cracker tab -> Hash Calculator tool as shown in the image.
3.	A dialogue box appears after clicking on hash calculator. Add the text “password” -> Calculate. Copy MD5 hash value
4.	Click on MD5 Hashes-> Add list->Paste Hash Value.
5.	Right click the hash value. Select dictionary attack-> Add to list-> Start
6.	If password not found, it will show 0 hash cracked.
7.	Again, go to hash calculator. Enter the text as hello and copy the MD5 value.
8.	Add the value. Right click and select Brute-Force Attack.
9.	Select predefined charset, set min and max length. Click on start.
10.	If hash is found, it will display the same.





























 
Practical No:10a
Aim: Scan Registry using RegScanner

1.	Open RegScanner tool.
2.	Select all in scan the following base keys. In Find String text field, search for word uninstall. Click on Scan.
3.	Scanner registry keys details will be obtained.
4.	Select any file and click on Properties button to get registry details.
5.	Save the configuration to a file for future analysis.
 














































Practical N0: 10B
AIM: Scan registry using OS Forensics.

Step 1: Start OS Forensic.
Step 2: Create a new case by selecting a new case. Enter appropriate details.
Step 3: Select reg viewer and select reg hive file to open for computer system and select open.
Step 4: Select system file to add a key/value.
Step 5: Enter appropriate details.
Step 6: Select manage case and you can view the reg created.
 













































Practical No 3 Aim: Using FTK and Writing reports using FTK
Steps:

A.	Starting a New Case
I.	Starting a new case
1.	Start FTK setup, select start a new case, select on OK.
II.	Completing the New Case

In New Case form, provide Investigator’s name, Case Number, Case Name, Case Path and case description. Case folder field is filled by default based on case name and case path fields. Click Next.

 
III.	Entering Forensic Examiner information
1.	In Case Information Form, provide forensic examiner information.
2.	Enter Company, Examiner’s Name, Address, Phone, Fax, Email and Comments.


IV.	Selecting Case Log Options
1.	In the Case Log Options form, select what you want to include in the case log and click Next.
 

V.	Selecting Evidence Processes
1.	In the Evidence Processing Options form, select the processes that you want to be run on the evidence and click Next.


VI.	Refining the Case
1.	In the Refine Case form, select the default template you want to use and click 999Next.

VII.	Refining the Index
1.	The Refine Index form has predefined settings and Click Next.

VIII.	Managing Evidence
a.	Adding Evidence
1.	To add evidence to the case, In the Add Evidence Case form Click Add Evidence
2.	Then select the type of evidence and click Container.
3.	Browse to the location and select the evidence.
4.	In the Evidence Information form, enter the evidence information and Click OK.


b.	Editing Evidence
1.	To modify the evidence information for a particular item, select an evidence item in the File List.
2.	Click Edit Evidence.
3.	Modify the information in the Evidence Information form.
4.	Click OK.

c.	Removing Evidence
1.	You can remove an item from file List in the Add Evidence form only. You cannot remove an item from your case after it has been processed.
d.	Refining Evidence

To Refine case evidence:
1.	Select the evidence from the file List.
2.	Click Refine Evidence Advanced.

The Refine case evidence Menu is organized into three windows
o	Refine evidence by File Status type.
o	Refine evidence by File Date/Size.
o	Refine evidence by File Path.

IX.	Reviewing case Summary
1.	The Case summary form allows you to review the evidence summary.
2.	Click Finish.

X.	Processing the Evidence
1.	After you click Finish, the processing files form appears and displays the status of the processed you selected in the wizard.
After processing the evidence aggregator

XI.	Backing up the case
1.	To back up the case manually, click file and then Backup Case and then select at empty direction when you want the backup to be created.


B.	Working with existing Cases
I.	Opening an Existing Case
To open an existing case from FTK
1.	In Forensic Toolkit (FTK), select Open an Existing Case and Click OK.

2.	Select the case you want to open.
II.	Adding evidence
1.	Click File, and then Add evidence. Then Add Evidence Wizard opens.

a.	Completing the Add Evidence Form
1.	Enter Investigator’s name and click Next.

b.	Selecting Evidence Processes
1.	In the Evidence Processing Options form, select the processes that you want to be run on the evidence and click next.

c.	Managing Evidence
1.	Adding Evidence
i.	To add evidence to the case, in the Add Evidence Case form, click Add Evidence.
ii.	Then select the type of evidence and click Continue.
iii.	Browse to the select the evidence.
iv.	In the Evidence Information form, enter the evidence information and click OK.

2.	Editing Evidence

1.	To modify the evidence information for a particular item, select an evidence item in the File List.
2.	Click Edit Evidence.
3.	Modify the information in the Evidence Information form.
4.	Click OK.
3.	Removing Evidence
2. You can remove an item from file List in the Add Evidence form only. You cannot remove an item from your case after it has been processed.
4.	Refining Evidence


To Refine case evidence: Select the evidence from the file List
III.	Processing Evidence
1.	Using Bookmarks
a.	Creating Bookmarks

To create a bookmark
i.	Select Tools, and the Click on Create Bookmark. The create New Bookmark form appears.
ii.	In the bookmark name field enter the name of the bookmark.
iii.	In the bookmark comment field enter comments about the bookmark or it’s contents.
iv.	Select All checked items.
v.	Click Include in Report to include the bookmark in the report.
vi.	If you choose to include the bookmark in the report, you can check Export to export the bookmark’s files with the report.
vii.	Click OK.

b.	Adding files in a bookmark
1.	In a file list, highlight the file that you want to add to the bookmark.
2.	Right-click and select. Add to Bookmark.
3.	Click OK.


c.	Removing a Bookmark
To remove a bookmark or individual file:
1.	In the bookmark window, expand the bookmark list and highlight the bookmark or file that you want to remove.
2.	To remove bookmark, right click and select Delete Bookmark.
3.	To remove a file, right-click and select Delete This File From the Bookmark.
Creating Thumbnails
1.	To create Thumbnails after you have added the graphics to the case. Click Tools, and then Prerender Thumbnails.
2.	The Prerender Thumbnails Processing Files from lists each graphic as it is being processed and reflects the overall process status.

III.	Verifying Image integrity
To verify that an image has not changed:
1.	Select tools, and then Verify Image Integrity. The Verify Image Integrity Menu appears.
2.	In the Evidence Filename column, select the image and click Verify.
3.	Click Yes to Confirm.

IV.	Using Analysis Tools
1.	Select Tools, and then Analysis Tools.
2.	Click the processes you want to perform.
3.	Select the files to process.
4.	Click OK.

V.	Using the Case Log
A.	Viewing the Case Log
1.	Select Tools, and then view Case Log.

B.	Adding Case Log entries
1.	Select Tools, and the Click Add Case Log Entry.

2.	In the investigator’s name field, enter the name of an investigator or select the name from the drop-down list.
3.	In the Case log Entry field, enter the information that you want to add.
4.	Click OK.


VI.	Copying Information from FTK
To copy file information:
1.	In the file list on any window, select the files that you want to copy information about.
2.	Select Edit, and then copy Special.
3.	In the File items to copy list, select all checked items.
4.	In the Load From Stored Column Settings drop-down list, select the template that contains the file information that you want to copy.
5.	Under Copy Destination, select MS Access Database, click Create Database.


VII.	Exporting Files
To manually export files without maintaining the directory structure,
1.	Select File, and then Export Files.

2.	Select the files to export.
3.	If you want to export e-mail attachments, check Include E-mail Attachments with Email Messages.
4.	In the Destination Path field, browse to and select the location where you want to export the files.
5.	If you want to add the archive name to the filename, check Prepend Archive Name to filename.
6.	If you want to add the item number after the filename, check Append Item Number to filename to guarantee uniqueness.
7.	If you want to add a appropriate extension to a file that is missing an extension or has a bad extension, check Append appropriate Extension to filename id Bad/Absent.
8.	To export the file in the same formatting as seen in the FTK program, check HTML, view if Available. Some files may not be available in this view.
9.	To export files in which readable text is filtered out of binary files, check Export Filtered Text View.
10.	Click OK.
 

VIII.	Exporting word list
To export the word list:
1.	Select Tools, and the Export Word List.
2.	Select the file and location that you want to write the word list to. The default filename is case_name.txt.
3.	Click Save.


D.	Searching a Case

I.	Condition to Live search
To perform a live search:
1.	In the search window, Click Live Search.
2.	In the search Term field, enter the term you want to search for.
3.	In the item type column, specify if you want FTK to search in Text or hexadecimal.

II.	Conducting an Indexed Search
A.	A Single-term Searches
To perform a single-term Indexed search:
1.	In the search window, click Indexed Search.
2.	In the Search Term field, enter the term you want to search for, including any wildcard characters.
3.	Click Add to add the search term to the search list.
4.	In the Search Items column, select the index term you want to search.
5.	Click View Item Results to initiate the search. The Filter search hites dialog box appears.
6.	In the Filter Search Hits dialog. Select All Files.
7.	Click OK.


B.	Multi-term Searches
To perform a multi-term Indexed search:
1.	In the search window, click Indexed Search.
2.	In the Search Term field, enter the term you want to search for, including any wildcard characters.
3.	Click Add to add the search term to the search list.
4.	Define your search opeators:
a.	Click AND to search for items containing all the terms.
b.	Click OR to search for items containing any of the terms.
5.	Click View Cumulative Results to initiate the search. The Filter Search Hits dialog appears.
6.	In the Filter Search Dialog, select All Files.
7.	Click OK.
 

C.	Importing Search Terms
To import search terms
1.	In the search window, click Indexed search
2.	Click Import.
3.	Select the text file containing the search content.
4.	Select Yes or No to display terms that file contains.


D.	Viewing Search Results
1.	The result of each search appear as separate line items in the search results list.
2.	Click the plus (+) sign next to a search line to expand the search results. Individual search results are listed in the search and file lists.
3.	To view a specific item, select the file in the search results or file lists. All search results are highlighted in the file.

E.	Reloading a search query
To reload a query:
1.	Select the query in the search results list.
2.	Right click and select Reload Search Query from the quick menu.


F.	Wildcard Character
1.	You may search among wildcard characters.

G.	Indexed Search Options
III.	Documenting Search Results
A.	Copying search results to clipboard
1.	When you right-click in the search results list, the quick menu displays the following options.
o	Copy to Clipboard (including all hits)
o	Copy to Clipboard (Visible information only)
2.	Copy to clipboard (including all hits) copies all the information for all the searches to the clipboard. This means that even if the search line is not expanded, the results of that search are copied to the clipboard.
3.	Copy to clipboard (visible information only) only copies the currently viewed information in the clipboard. This means that search results are not copied to the clipboard unless the search line is expanded.

B.	Using copy special to document search results
1.	In the Search Results list, highlight the search you want to document.
2.	Select Edit, and the Copy Special.
3.	In the File Items to Copy list, select All Highlighted Items.
4.	In the Load from Stored column settings drop-down list, select the template that contains the file information that you want to copy.
5.	To create a new column setting, Click Save As, enter a name in the field, and click OK.
6.	Under Copy Destination, select MS Access Database and Click Create Database.

 	 
C.	Bookmarking Search Results
To create a bookmark from the search results list:
1.	Select the search you want to bookmark.
2.	Right click and select Bookmark Search Query Result from the quick menu.
3.	In the Create New Bookmark form, enter details.
4.	Click OK.


D.	Generating Reports using Access Data FTK
I.	Creating a Report
1.	Select file and then Report Wizard.

a.	Entering basic case information
1.	Check Include Investigator information in Report check box.
2.	Enter Company, Investigator name, Address, Phone, Fax, E-mail and Comments details.
3.	Click Next.
 
b.	Managing Bookmarks
1.	The Bookmarks- A form allows you to create a section in the report that lists the Bookmarks that were created during the case investigation.
2.	Select appropriate option.
3.	Click Next.

C.	Selecting the properties of Bookmarked files
1.	The Bookmarks-B form allows you to select which file properties to include for each bookmarked file.
2.	Review the file properties to be included in the report.
3.	Click Next.

D.	Managing Thumbnails
1.	The Graphic Thumbnails form allows you to create a section in the report that displays thumbnail images of the case graphics.
2.	Select appropriate options.
3.	Click Next.

E.	Selecting a File Path List
1.	The list by file path form allows you to create a section in the report that lists the file paths of files in the selected categories. The List by file path section simply displays the file and their file paths.
2.	Check the Include the List by File Path Section in the Report box.
3.	In the Categories of Lists that can be Included list, select which file categories to include in the list. Here, select All items, Document files, Database Files, and Graphic Files.
4.	Check the Include in the Report box.
5.	Check the Export to the Report box.
6.	Click Next.

F.	Selecting File properties list
1.	The List File properties-A form allows you to create a section in the report that lists file properties for files in selected categories.
2.	Check the Include a List File Properties Section in the Report box.
3.	Check the Include MS Access Database in the Report box.
4.	In the categories of Lists to be Included in the Report list, select which files categories to include in the list.
5.	Check the Include in the Report box.
6.	Check the Export to the Report box.
7.	Click Next.

G.	Selecting the Properties of the File Properties List
1.	The List file properties-B form allows you to select which file properties are displayed for file in the categories specified in the previous form.
2.	From the Last categories column, select the category that you want to specify file properties for and review the properties listed for it.


H.	Adding Supplementary Files and the case Log
1.	If you want to add a supplementary file, Click Add Files and browse to the file you want to include in the report.
2.	If you want to add the case log to the report, Click the Include Case Log in Report box.
3.	If you crossed an HTML file listing in preprocessing, you can add it in your reports.
4.	Click Next.

I.	Selecting the Report Location
1.	In the Report folder field, browse to and select the location for the report folder.
2.	Select the language for the report from the Report Language drop-down list.
3.	Click Finish.

II.	Viewing and distributing the Report
1.	The report contains the information that you selected in the report wizard i.e index.html
2.	To view the report in FTK
•	Immediately after creating the report, click yes to view the report.
•	Select File, and then View report.


III.	Updating Report
1.	To update report, select file, and then Update Report.

IV.	Modifying Report
A.	Modifying reports in the same FTK session
1.	Select File, and then Report Wizard.
2.	Make the changes that you want as you complete the Wizard.
3.	On the Report Location form, Click Finish to overwrite the existing report with the new version.
B.	Modifying reports in the different FTK session
1.	Select File, and then Report Wizard.
2.	Complete the Wizard.
3.	On the Report Location form, Click Finish if you want to overwrite the existing report with the new version.
 